OK and I want to look at that discharging a capacitor.
So in this case here we're going to start off with a capacity that initially even charged up.
So we have some amount of charge let's call it zero.
And then at time equals to zero what we're going to do is we're going to close the switch right now
if the switch is oping the charge is simply going to stay there really has nowhere to go.
This is a path of infinite resistance.
So there's no current that can flow.
All right but we're going to do now we're going to close this switch if I close the switch you're going
to create a connection in here and as soon as you close that switch Well what's going to happen if you
have positive charge over here again you're going to have a positive current that's going to flow in
this direction right here.
OK.
And that's the positive current.
So now our goal is similar to what it was before.
What we want to do is we want to find how much charge there is as a function of time on this capacitor.
What is the voltage between the plates of the capacitor as a function of time and also what is the current
that current is not going to last forever.
Last for a certain amount of time and it will decay to zero at some point.
All right well it can only last as long as there is charge on the capacitor.
So in order to solve this problem let's do apply Kirchhoff's loop rule to this problem.
We can start over here.
Let's start here a point A and let's go around and do a counterclockwise loop.
So if we have current flowing in this direction that means we're going to have the voltage drop across
that resistor and then voltage drop is given by minus IIR same as before.
So again now we're going across a capacitor we go from the negative to the positive so we have plus
the voltage across the capacitor and I go back to point A that there must be equal to zero.
Now again we're going to use our capacitor equation if you remember the capacitor equation that relates
the amount of charge on the plates to the capacitance.
And we're going to use that just to eliminate the voltage across the capacitor over here.
So let's do this one extra step and so we still get mine as I are and now plus instead of VC I replace
that with Q divided by the capacitance and that's equal to zero.
Now this equation looks similar to the previous one but there's a couple of important differences there
in order to solve it here or we're going to do is going to do one more step.
So let's look at this equation for a minute.
This is really related to what's going on with their capacitor and this guy here is really what's going
on with the resistor.
Now what I want to do is I want to relate this current.
Right.
You have to be a little bit careful when you ride out the current here for the discharging case.
I'm going to just ride it out.
And let's talk about it for a minute.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to replace it by you know current is the rate of change of charge
divided by time.
But if I want to relate what's going on with the resistor to what's going on with the capacitor and
again is the charge on the capacitor right.
OK.
Now the reason I'm including a negative sign here the negative sign is just to indicate that the charge
is reducing right charge on the capacitor is getting smaller That's why you have a negative slope over
here.
We have a negative rate that will ensure that although we have a positive current going in this direction
we have to have that the charge on the plates.
Again those charges are going to reduce as a function of time and this negative sign ensures that.
So charges on capacitor
reduce will eventually get more spacing between the charges.
Eventually the charges go to zero.
So this is going to be an important step over here and we're going to substitute this expression in
the Kirchoff's voltage law.
So again it's simply the connection because we want to write an equation that's completely for the capacitor
in order to solve it.
OK so if I plug in the negative sign what you end up getting over here is the Q Were ditty and negative
sign will cancel with the other one you're still left with the resistance.
Let me just put that in the front plus.
Q Over C equals zero.
And the last step here what I'm going to do is just rewrite it just so it's a slightly different form.
So I have dequeue over D.T. on one side.
Now if I do that again I've divided through by the resistance and what you're going to have on this
side is mine is q over RC.
All right.
This is really the differential equation that you want to solve for you go to the previous case the
way we did it is first we did a change of variable.
Then I brought the Kule on this side.
I brought the to that side and you could do it that way you'll be able to solve it using the exact same
technique we did for the charging case.
In this case here I'm just going to write out the solution and what you can do is you can substitute
this solution into the equation here in the red box and check it out that it actually is a solution.
So you substitute it on the left hand side you substitute on the right hand side and you're going to
easily show that they're equal to each other.
So the charge is a function of time on the capacitor is equal to some initial charge and then this term
here is going to look very familiar to you if you understood the charging case.
We have minus T divided by this RC time constant.
All right.
So this is the solution.
This is our solution for
yeah this is the solution for the charge as a function of time on the capacitor plates.
The nice thing about it is if you know the charges is a function of time we go back to our capacitor
equation we automatically know the voltage across the capacitor as a function of time.
Right because all we need to do in order to get the voltage is simply divide the charge by the capacitance.
We can go ahead and do that.
So we across the capacitor is a function of time is simply equal to Q 0 divided by C.
And at the same time dependency minus T over R C.
Now we've gotten quite a bit done.
We all we need to do now is look at the current as a function of time and then let's maybe sketch some
of those functions just so we could see what they look like four different time constants.
OK so what's next.
Well let's compare now the charge is a function of time and here I'm just going to plot the charge because
I the voltage has the exact same time dependence.
So if you plot Q As a function of t so plot time down here and Q is a function of time.
What you do is you start off here at some initial value that time equals zero you substitute zero and
here you Simpson.
You simply get Q zero.
All right.
Now let's pick a blue color an exponential function like this.
This is an exponentially decaying function simply kind of looks like this.
It approaches zero as time gets very very big.
So let's call this for our time constant which is simply our time.
See now what if you are going to compare this case to maybe a red one and I'll make the red one kind
of decay faster.
So this one here would mean it would have the same initial cube zero.
However it would have a different time constant.
So what can we conclude about the red one versus the blue one.
Which one here has the bigger time constant if you compare the red one to the blue one.
And again if something here has a small time constant if the time constant is small it means that either
the resistance is small or the capacitance is small so if the resistance is small it means that well
that current or or the chart is a function of time.
It's going to leave very very fast there is no resistance for it to leave.
So it's going to go to zero very very fast.
So in this case here the time constant for the red case would be something that is smaller than the
blue one.
If something has a long RC time constant it tends to decay very very slowly.
Now how do you get the current Well the current.
Remember the definition or the current.
Again now we're simply going to take the rate of change.
All right.
That's the derivative of dequeue.
Now if you want to include the negative sign you can hear we know the direction of the current.
Now this here represents the charge on the plates the way we have it written here.
So just be a little bit careful here.
There could be a negative sign that lingers here.
But again if you look at this plot over here the way I have it written here is the current He represents
how the charge on the plates change as a function of time because then we're leading into the charge
on the capacitor the negative sign and the positive sign for the current simply tell me the direction.
So if you take a derivative of an exponential with respect to time you get X and you get the same term
right.
The only thing you have to worry about is that this factor here is going to come out and you're going
to get something like this.
So the constant is going to remain the same the next term I'm going to get is minus 1 over R C and now
you get exponential of the exact same term.
So the shape if I plot a graph of current as a function of time it's going to look the exact same.
Let's have a look.
Now this is kind of clean this up here so you get minus Q zero divided by R C an exponential of minus
T over R C and that is our current as a function of time.
Can Go ahead and make a sketch of that.
It's going to look exactly the same way.
The number on the front here this number here in the box is here represents the initial current that
we're going to find all right at initial current.
And that makes sense because let's go have let's go ahead and look at this so you read it out.
The initial current that you get from
if you remember the Kirchoff's voltage law for this circuit is very very simple right.
We had minus i r plus the voltage across the capacitor I use the capacitor equation to simplify this
term but we know that this initial current at least the magnitude of it here should be equal to Visi
divided by R.
And that's what you get for this equation.
The voltage across the capacitor here is q zero divided by C..
All right.
Now we can again make a plot of this.
We'll have the exact same kind of time dependence over here except the only difference is here we're
plotting current So current is a function of time versus time and again if it's something with a long
time constant again it takes a while for that curve to decay to zero.
At this point here the current is effectively tends towards zero at this point here the initial current
is depends on how much charge I initially had and depends on that time constant at this initial current
over here.
You can compare that to the Red K something that decays faster to zero and it's the exact same form.
OK so the discharging case is pretty straightforward.
We've looked at voltage charging current.
That's it folks is nothing else to.